# Particle Filter Localization Project
### Team members: Nic Gard, Karhan Kayan
#### Implementation Plan:
* The particle cloud will be initialized using uniformly distributed approximately 200-500 points across a field with dimensions 50 x 50. The exact number of points, and the size of the field, are subject to change based on testing, and the initial number of particles initialized will be smaller for the sake of testing. When testing `initialize_particle_cloud`, the output will be checked manually to determine that no large groups of particles form.
* The positions of the particles will be updated by taking the movement information of the robot (i.e. how much the robot is expected to have moved in 1 tick, whether that be a change in position or angle) and finding the new position of each particle using that movement information. `update_particles_with_motion_model` will be tested by creating a list of movements, applying them to the list of particles, and verifying that their new positions is correct. When updating the movements, Gaussian noise will be added. 
* Importance weights: `update_particle_weights_with_measurement_model` will be implemented using a likelihood field algorithm to estimate hypothetical particle measurement readings, and the same weight assignment function that we used in class will be used to update the weights. In other words, we will use 1/l1 distance between the likelihood field measurement and the actual measurement. 
* Normalizing the particles' importance weights can be done by summing their weights, getting the inverse of this sum, and multiplying this with each particle's importance weight. This will give us a probability distribution on particles for the resampling step. Resampling the particles will be done using Python's `random.choice`, which is able to select elements in a list using probability weights. Testing of `normalize_particles` can be done by verifying the result of the calculation, and testing of `resample_particles` can be done by running multiple trials, and determining that a weighted choice is able to select a particle with the probability that its weight suggests (e.g. if a particle has an importance weigt of 0.1, 100 trils should show that it is selected approximately 10 times).
* The estimated pose of the robot will be updated by averaging the position and angles of all of the particles. `update_estimated_robot_pose` can be tested by simply verifying that the robot's udpated position is correct using different lists of updated particles, before and after a state change.
* Noise: Noise will be added in `update_particles_with_motion_model`, where some random amount of noise is added to each particle's movement and rotation. The noise we will use will be Gaussian noise with mean 0 and a small variance. We will determine the appropriate amount of variance through trial and error. The `np.random.normal()` function is appropriate to generate this noise. 
#### Timeline:
